+++
title = "Medium Fidelity II"
description = "Two tasks, now in Invisionapp"
date = "2016-03-23"
publishdate = "2016-03-23"
+++

## Design Context

I'm trying to refine the clarity of how to perform the given tasks based on the
in class evaluations. I believe this will be critical in high stress situations
that Bond inevitably faces while having to use his gadgets for the first time.
One part of that evaluation, however, that I'm resisting is the to make the
watch a touch screen. For the third time users have tried to use the watch as
if it had a touch screen. I still believe that in the end this will not be a
good solution, although for people familiar with using other touch devices the
direct manipulation is more intuitive. As discussed in this weeks inspiration
of [fingerIO](/hcc-613/inspiration/finger-io/), fingers obscure large portions
of watch displays and interaction is clumsy on small areas. I still argue that
in high stress and where tasks often need to be performed quickly, Bond will be
better off with physical knobs and buttons. What I have done, in response to
the evaluations as well as some feedback from a user, tried to refine the icons
to include a small triangle to indicate that the button is intended to be
pressed. 

## From Version 1 â†’ Version 2

There were three things I worked on moving from version 1 to 2:

  - Improve clarity that buttons are meant to be used rather than using touch.
  - Added animations to show how the watch hands move when going between the
    standard watch face and the interactive mode.
  - Expanded prototype to include reading saved message.

### Button Clarity

I added some triangles next to the icons to give a hint that you are meant to
interact using physical watch buttons. This was a suggestion from one of my
classmates after going though the evaluation of version 1. I hope this will
clarify the interaction slightly without adding distracting clutter.

{{% fig "button-arrows.jpg" %}}**Figure 1** Adding triangles to encourage users
to use the buttons rather than tapping the screen.{{% /fig %}}

### Animated Watch Hands

In class we discussed the possibility creating animations outside of the
prototyping tool. I found that Invisionapp supports animated GIFs and so I
created simple watch hand animations in After Effects to demonstration the
transition from the standard watch face to the interactive mode and back.

{{% fig "animated-hands.gif" %}}**Figure 2** Animated watch hands.{{% /fig %}}

### Reading Saved Message Task

Version 1 partially prototyped reading of saved messages. Version 2 expands the
prototype for the task. This is the start of trying to develop the menu system
to go between features.

{{% fig "reading-message-task.gif" %}}**Figure 3** Reading message task
expanded on in version 2.{{% /fig %}}

## Reflections of Medium Fidelity Prototyping with Invisionapp

Invisionapp turned out to be much more restrictive than Keynote. Each screen
could only be made up of a single image and so there was much less reuse. I
ended up using Keynote to create all the screens and then exporting to JPEGs in
order to import into Invisionapp. Linking slides was very nice, however, and on
par with Keynote. I think we were spoiled starting Keynote which turned out to
be surprisingly capable for use as a prototyping tool.  

## Where I Would Use It

In short, I don't think I would use it as a prototyping tool. Perhaps the main
benefit is not in creating prototypes, however, but sharing and commenting on
prototypes. I didn't get to make use of any of these features, but there look
to be tools to move prototypes between acceptance stages and collect feedback.
Also, one classmate mentioned the ability to see prototypes on smart swatches.
This could be useful, but I suspect this could be useful when prototyping touch
interfaces, but not for the prototype I'm working on.
