+++
title = "Video Sketch"
description = "Telling stories with video"
date = "2016-04-20"
publishdate = "2016-04-20"
+++

## Fitting the Context

Again, gadgets are important to Bond, but merely tools. He and his abilities
are the center of attention. This is what I went after with the video sketches.
When he does use the watch, he should use it masterfully. 

## From Version 1 â†’ Version 2

The videos were created in After Effects using the sketches from the [previous
storyboarding assignment](/hcc-613/project/storyboarding/). The sketches were
tracings either of images found using Google Images or photos taken myself. The
tracings were done by placing the piece of paper right on my laptop screen and
using it as a light table. This was inspired by one of my classmates, although
he did the tracing on an iPad Pro.

{{< vimeo 163359780 >}}

The feedback for the first version was mixed. The biggest criticism was that
there was too little of the prototype interface. This was intentional. I was
trying to focus more on the story than than give a tutorial on how to use the
watch. I tried to place the watch in somewhat plausible situations for Bond
without overemphasizing the watch. During the screening in class, I saw a
number of examples of videos that showcased the prototype well while still
telling a story.

In my version 2, I tried to showcase more, without making the video overly
descriptive. 

The second most common criticism is that the second story was not developed and
didn't make sense. To try and rectify this, I moved the message receiving
feature of the watch to the beginning of Act 2 while Bond is eating and used
that to explain why he is following the woman. I then changed the helicopter
scene to demonstrate the ability to remotely detonate explosives.

{{< vimeo 163359841 >}}

## Using Prototypes in Video Sketches

The biggest challenge for me was to find the balance between showcasing while
still making the presentation natural and flow as a story. This seems
especially so when trying to make a somewhat serious video demonstrating
plausible situations and my case, staying with the character of Bond. The
alternative seems to be to make the video a parody. Some of the most successful
presentations from the screening last week were videos that were incredibly
funny. They didn't really have to strike a balance between narrative and
showcasing. Everything was tongue in cheek and so nothing stood out as out of
place.

## Reflections on Video Sketches

The strength of video sketching is in presenting context in a compelling
narrative. Stories can come alive and demonstrate a bigger picture. The focus
may still be on an artifact, but the context gives the artifact a reason to be
and helps explain what else is going on beyond the screens of a UI. It also
gives people using the artifact a more prominent place when demonstrating the
prototype.

## Where I Would Use It

This was a lot of work, not just to make the video, but all the previous weeks
leading up to this. I'm not sure if it would be worth if for interfaces that I
design. I see how the context and story can really be helpful, but often for
interfaces that I design, people I present to understand the context at least
as well as I do. I'm not sure if this form of presentation would really add
much. One thing I will take away, however, is to try and think beyond the
screen and consider the context that users are in.
