+++
title = "Interaction Design: Prototyping"
description = "Reflections on Interaction Design Ch. 11.2 Prototyping"
date = "2016-02-17"
publishdate = "2016-02-17"
+++

{{% refbox %}}
[Jenny Preece](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jenny_Preece), 
[Yvonne Rogers](http://www.yvonnerogers.com/), and
[Helen Sharp](http://mcs.open.ac.uk/hcs2/).
2015. *Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction*, 4th Edition. John Wiley & Sons.
<span class=actions>
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Interaction-Design-Beyond-Human-Computer/dp/1119020751/ref=sr_1_1?s=tradein-aps&srs=9187220011&ie=UTF8&qid=1455483432&sr=8-1&keywords=interaction+design" title="Amazon"><i class="fa fa-amazon"></i></a>
</span>
{{% /refbox %}}

## The Section

### What Is It?

This section describes a prototype as a limited manifestation of a design that
can be interacted with by stakeholders. It emphasizes some aspects and often
deemphasizes others. It can range from paper sketches to complex
three-dimensional models. An interesting anecdote presented is [Jeff
Hawkins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Hawkins), founder of Palm, carrying
a block of wood and pretended to use it as a hand held device.

### What Is It Good For?

Prototypes are used to progressively evaluate designs. They can focus attention
on certain parts of the design to gather feedback, to evaluate feasibility or
even as a communication tool between designers. Prototypes are made to answer
certain questions to guide further development. This is also described in terms
of filtering, where design dimensions (appearance, functionality, etc) can be
varied in a controlled manner without distorting the overall understanding.

### Low V. High

Prototypes can range from low to high fidelity. Low fidelity prototypes are
quicker and cheaper to make and focus on answering very broad questions or
specific aspects of a system. They are tend to be used earlier on in the
development process and let you move through the design space quickly, trying
many approaches. High fidelity prototypes tend to be used later on and answer
more complex questions that involve the system as a whole. They are usually
much more expensive and time intensive to produce and are much closer to the
finished product.

## My Response

I understand the drawbacks with functional high-fidelity prototypes. People
might not give input because they think it's too late to make changes. Or there
is a bias with what is seen that alternatives are not considered. I've also
experienced that wrong expectations are set that development of an idea and
implementation is almost done.

But I also think there are advantages of bringing in functional prototypes
earlier on. This section began with "that users can't tell you what they want,
but when they see something and get to use it, they soon know what they don't
want". A problem with low fidelity prototypes is when they are presented,
people may respond positively because they are filling in their own details to
the abstraction presented in the prototype.

Functional prototypes can sometimes also give better ideas of feasibility,
something that can be very valuable earlier in the design process.  

Finally, they are not always more expensive to create, especially when you
consider the time it takes to iterate through many incremental changes. 
